Now we're going to learn how to work with trees in code.
Now a common question you may ask whenever you're learning anything is,
will I ever use this in real life?
I'd say, especially with tree data structures,
the answer is yes.
Trees show up quite a lot in software engineering in databases,
anytime you're dealing with storing data,
and the nice thing about trees is you're able to retrieve values we need more
quickly because you don't actually have to touch
upon all the nodes stored in the tree before you find what you're looking for.
Also, when you're studying machine learning
tree show up again in tree-based machine learning models,
such as variance of decision trees.
So here are the coding practice objectives for this lesson,
you'll learn how to create a binary tree in code from scratch.
You'll learn how to traverse the tree,
depth first search and breadth first search in code.
You'll also learn how to create
a binary search tree and also how to insert search and delete nodes.
Just keep in mind the average time complexity for these tree operations is log
n. A good way to remember that is when you think of trees, think of logs.